---
layout: post
title: "Migrating to Jekyll"
date: 2024-12-19 00:55:50 +0000
categories: hosting jekyll ssgs
---

# Preface / TLDR;

Honestly, I was bored of my old site. I thought it was too "vibrant", aka didn't match my aesthetic. I also didn't want to create everything in pure HTML CSS since it takes a precious resource I don't have much of - time. So, as any smart fella does, I looked at some portfolios of friends and people who I do look up to. I'll admit that this was entertaining, but you know that primal urge of being unique? Yeah. I didn't want to simply spam Bootstrap / Tailwind / React + Netlify as a personal site. Theoretically, I wanted a site that wasn't bloated with JS and one that provided a pleasant viewing experience in any provided UI. I'll admit this place is a continuous W.I.P, so don't expect it to perfect you snobs lol.Anyways, back to the content of my site. Since I wanted this site to collectively demonstrate the inner workings of my brain, I thought it would be best to include a blog (which i'll hopefully add commenting to in the future), a place to add cool things I tinker and dabble in, and some socials. I think this would show my thoughts / thinking process / how I want to be perceived. The best solution I found were static site generators (SSGs) (link to footnotes)! At first, I was overjoyed! "Aha!"... but we all know that nothing is ever _that_ straightforward. I found myself tinkering with the HUGO ssg and learning TOML at the same time, and at first everything was going smoothly. However, when I wanted to implement a specifc them and customize it to my own needs, I encountered a problem where I was not able to override the default header theme, which made me mald. (I'm not bashing HUGO, it's probably bc of my 1 day experience using TOML tbh). After reconvening the next day, I decided to create my site using another SSG: Jekyll. I found onboarding and creating sites and deploying them locally via Jekyll very straightforward as well, but the sheer amount of documentation + community themes just made it that much more appealing. Some particualr Jekyll themes I kept referring to while creating this portfolio are the hacked jekyll theme (link to footnotes), and the no-style-please theme (link to footnotes). I actually use the no-style-please as my theme, but I tend to customize it to cater to my preference.
